framework-docs/modules/ROOT/pages/appendix.adoc, before:

[[appendix]]
= Appendix

This part of the reference documentation covers topics that apply to multiple modules
within the core Spring Framework.


[[appendix-spring-properties]]
== Spring Properties

{spring-framework-api}/core/SpringProperties.html[`SpringProperties`] is a static holder
for properties that control certain low-level aspects of the Spring Framework. Users can
configure these properties via JVM system properties or programmatically via the
`SpringProperties.setProperty(String key, String value)` method. The latter may be
necessary if the deployment environment disallows custom JVM system properties. As an
alternative, these properties may be configured in a `spring.properties` file in the root
of the classpath -- for example, deployed within the application's JAR file.

The following table lists all currently supported Spring properties.

.Supported Spring Properties
[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name | Description

| `spring.aop.ajc.ignore`
| Instructs Spring to ignore ajc-compiled aspects for Spring AOP proxying, restoring traditional
Spring behavior for scenarios where both weaving and AspectJ auto-proxying are enabled. See
{spring-framework-api}++/aop/aspectj/annotation/AbstractAspectJAdvisorFactory.html#IGNORE_AJC_PROPERTY_NAME++[`AbstractAspectJAdvisorFactory`]
for details.

| `spring.aot.enabled`
| Indicates the application should run with AOT generated artifacts. See
xref:core/aot.adoc[Ahead of Time Optimizations] and 
{spring-framework-api}++/aot/AotDetector.html#AOT_ENABLED++[`AotDetector`]
for details.

| `spring.beaninfo.ignore`
| Instructs Spring to use the `Introspector.IGNORE_ALL_BEANINFO` mode when calling the
JavaBeans `Introspector`. See
{spring-framework-api}++/beans/StandardBeanInfoFactory.html#IGNORE_BEANINFO_PROPERTY_NAME++[`StandardBeanInfoFactory`]
for details.

| `spring.cache.reactivestreams.ignore`
| Instructs Spring's caching infrastructure to ignore the presence of Reactive Streams,
in particular Reactor's `Mono`/`Flux` in `@Cacheable` method return type declarations. See
{spring-framework-api}++/cache/interceptor/CacheAspectSupport.html#IGNORE_REACTIVESTREAMS_PROPERTY_NAME++[`CacheAspectSupport`]
for details.

| `spring.classformat.ignore`
| Instructs Spring to ignore class format exceptions during classpath scanning, in
particular for unsupported class file versions. See
{spring-framework-api}++/context/annotation/ClassPathScanningCandidateComponentProvider.html#IGNORE_CLASSFORMAT_PROPERTY_NAME++[`ClassPathScanningCandidateComponentProvider`]
for details.

| `spring.context.checkpoint`
| Property that specifies a common context checkpoint. See
xref:integration/checkpoint-restore.adoc#_automatic_checkpointrestore_at_startup[Automatic checkpoint/restore at startup] and
{spring-framework-api}++/context/support/DefaultLifecycleProcessor.html#CHECKPOINT_PROPERTY_NAME++[`DefaultLifecycleProcessor`]
for details.

| `spring.context.exit`
| Property for terminating the JVM when the context reaches a specific phase. See
xref:integration/checkpoint-restore.adoc#_automatic_checkpointrestore_at_startup[Automatic checkpoint/restore at startup] and
{spring-framework-api}++/context/support/DefaultLifecycleProcessor.html#EXIT_PROPERTY_NAME++[`DefaultLifecycleProcessor`]
for details.

| `spring.context.expression.maxLength`
| The maximum length for
xref:core/expressions/evaluation.adoc#expressions-parser-configuration[Spring Expression Language]
expressions used in XML bean definitions, `@Value`, etc.

| `spring.expression.compiler.mode`
| The mode to use when compiling expressions for the
xref:core/expressions/evaluation.adoc#expressions-compiler-configuration[Spring Expression Language].

| `spring.getenv.ignore`
| Instructs Spring to ignore operating system environment variables if a Spring
`Environment` property -- for example, a placeholder in a configuration String -- isn't
resolvable otherwise. See
{spring-framework-api}++/core/env/AbstractEnvironment.html#IGNORE_GETENV_PROPERTY_NAME++[`AbstractEnvironment`]
for details.

| `spring.jdbc.getParameterType.ignore`
| Instructs Spring to ignore `java.sql.ParameterMetaData.getParameterType` completely.
See the note in xref:data-access/jdbc/advanced.adoc#jdbc-batch-list[Batch Operations with a List of Objects].

| `spring.jndi.ignore`
| Instructs Spring to ignore a default JNDI environment, as an optimization for scenarios
where nothing is ever to be found for such JNDI fallback searches to begin with, avoiding
the repeated JNDI lookup overhead. See
{spring-framework-api}++/jndi/JndiLocatorDelegate.html#IGNORE_JNDI_PROPERTY_NAME++[`JndiLocatorDelegate`]
for details.

| `spring.locking.strict`
| Instructs Spring to enforce strict locking during bean creation, rather than the mix of
strict and lenient locking that 6.2 applies by default. See
{spring-framework-api}++/beans/factory/support/DefaultListableBeanFactory.html#STRICT_LOCKING_PROPERTY_NAME++[`DefaultListableBeanFactory`]
for details.

| `spring.objenesis.ignore`
| Instructs Spring to ignore Objenesis, not even attempting to use it. See
{spring-framework-api}++/objenesis/SpringObjenesis.html#IGNORE_OBJENESIS_PROPERTY_NAME++[`SpringObjenesis`]
for details.

| `spring.placeholder.escapeCharacter.default`
| The default escape character for property placeholder support. If not set, `'\'` will
be used. Can be set to a custom escape character or an empty string to disable support
for an escape character. The default escape character be explicitly overridden in
`PropertySourcesPlaceholderConfigurer` and subclasses of `AbstractPropertyResolver`. See
{spring-framework-api}++/core/env/AbstractPropertyResolver.html#DEFAULT_PLACEHOLDER_ESCAPE_CHARACTER_PROPERTY_NAME++[`AbstractPropertyResolver`]
for details.

| `spring.test.aot.processing.failOnError`
| A boolean flag that controls whether errors encountered during AOT processing in the
_Spring TestContext Framework_ should result in an exception that fails the overall process.
See xref:testing/testcontext-framework/aot.adoc[Ahead of Time Support for Tests].

| `spring.test.constructor.autowire.mode`
| The default _test constructor autowire mode_ to use if `@TestConstructor` is not present
on a test class. See xref:testing/annotations/integration-junit-jupiter.adoc#integration-testing-annotations-testconstructor[Changing the default test constructor autowire mode].

| `spring.test.context.cache.maxSize`
| The maximum size of the context cache in the _Spring TestContext Framework_. See
xref:testing/testcontext-framework/ctx-management/caching.adoc[Context Caching].

| `spring.test.context.failure.threshold`
| The failure threshold for errors encountered while attempting to load an `ApplicationContext`
in the _Spring TestContext Framework_. See
xref:testing/testcontext-framework/ctx-management/failure-threshold.adoc[Context Failure Threshold].

| `spring.test.enclosing.configuration`
| The default _enclosing configuration inheritance mode_ to use if
`@NestedTestConfiguration` is not present on a test class. See
xref:testing/annotations/integration-junit-jupiter.adoc#integration-testing-annotations-nestedtestconfiguration[Changing the default enclosing configuration inheritance mode].

|===

Commit message:

Introduce Spring property to disable context pausing for tests
Spring Framework 7.0 introduced support for pausing inactive
application contexts between test classes and restarting them once they
are needed again. If pausing and restarting are fast, this feature does
not have a negative impact on test suites.

However, if the pausing or restarting of certain Lifecycle components
in the application context is slow, that can have a negative impact on
the duration of the overall test suite.

In gh-36044, we hope to find a way to avoid unnecessarily pausing an
application context after a test class if the same context is used by
the next test class that is run. That should help reduce the risk of a
negative impact caused by the pause/restart feature; however, for
certain scenarios that may not be enough. In light of that, this commit
introduces a mechanism for completely disabling the pausing feature via
a Spring property or JVM system property, as follows.

-Dspring.test.context.cache.pause=never

See gh-35168
See gh-36044
Closes gh-36117

framework-docs/modules/ROOT/pages/appendix.adoc, after:

[[appendix]]
= Appendix

This part of the reference documentation covers topics that apply to multiple modules
within the core Spring Framework.


[[appendix-spring-properties]]
== Spring Properties

{spring-framework-api}/core/SpringProperties.html[`SpringProperties`] is a static holder
for properties that control certain low-level aspects of the Spring Framework. Users can
configure these properties via JVM system properties or programmatically via the
`SpringProperties.setProperty(String key, String value)` method. The latter may be
necessary if the deployment environment disallows custom JVM system properties. As an
alternative, these properties may be configured in a `spring.properties` file in the root
of the classpath -- for example, deployed within the application's JAR file.

The following table lists all currently supported Spring properties.

.Supported Spring Properties
[cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name | Description

| `spring.aop.ajc.ignore`
| Instructs Spring to ignore ajc-compiled aspects for Spring AOP proxying, restoring traditional
Spring behavior for scenarios where both weaving and AspectJ auto-proxying are enabled. See
{spring-framework-api}++/aop/aspectj/annotation/AbstractAspectJAdvisorFactory.html#IGNORE_AJC_PROPERTY_NAME++[`AbstractAspectJAdvisorFactory`]
for details.

| `spring.aot.enabled`
| Indicates the application should run with AOT generated artifacts. See
xref:core/aot.adoc[Ahead of Time Optimizations] and 
{spring-framework-api}++/aot/AotDetector.html#AOT_ENABLED++[`AotDetector`]
for details.

| `spring.beaninfo.ignore`
| Instructs Spring to use the `Introspector.IGNORE_ALL_BEANINFO` mode when calling the
JavaBeans `Introspector`. See
{spring-framework-api}++/beans/StandardBeanInfoFactory.html#IGNORE_BEANINFO_PROPERTY_NAME++[`StandardBeanInfoFactory`]
for details.

| `spring.cache.reactivestreams.ignore`
| Instructs Spring's caching infrastructure to ignore the presence of Reactive Streams,
in particular Reactor's `Mono`/`Flux` in `@Cacheable` method return type declarations. See
{spring-framework-api}++/cache/interceptor/CacheAspectSupport.html#IGNORE_REACTIVESTREAMS_PROPERTY_NAME++[`CacheAspectSupport`]
for details.

| `spring.classformat.ignore`
| Instructs Spring to ignore class format exceptions during classpath scanning, in
particular for unsupported class file versions. See
{spring-framework-api}++/context/annotation/ClassPathScanningCandidateComponentProvider.html#IGNORE_CLASSFORMAT_PROPERTY_NAME++[`ClassPathScanningCandidateComponentProvider`]
for details.

| `spring.context.checkpoint`
| Property that specifies a common context checkpoint. See
xref:integration/checkpoint-restore.adoc#_automatic_checkpointrestore_at_startup[Automatic checkpoint/restore at startup] and
{spring-framework-api}++/context/support/DefaultLifecycleProcessor.html#CHECKPOINT_PROPERTY_NAME++[`DefaultLifecycleProcessor`]
for details.

| `spring.context.exit`
| Property for terminating the JVM when the context reaches a specific phase. See
xref:integration/checkpoint-restore.adoc#_automatic_checkpointrestore_at_startup[Automatic checkpoint/restore at startup] and
{spring-framework-api}++/context/support/DefaultLifecycleProcessor.html#EXIT_PROPERTY_NAME++[`DefaultLifecycleProcessor`]
for details.

| `spring.context.expression.maxLength`
| The maximum length for
xref:core/expressions/evaluation.adoc#expressions-parser-configuration[Spring Expression Language]
expressions used in XML bean definitions, `@Value`, etc.

| `spring.expression.compiler.mode`
| The mode to use when compiling expressions for the
xref:core/expressions/evaluation.adoc#expressions-compiler-configuration[Spring Expression Language].

| `spring.getenv.ignore`
| Instructs Spring to ignore operating system environment variables if a Spring
`Environment` property -- for example, a placeholder in a configuration String -- isn't
resolvable otherwise. See
{spring-framework-api}++/core/env/AbstractEnvironment.html#IGNORE_GETENV_PROPERTY_NAME++[`AbstractEnvironment`]
for details.

| `spring.jdbc.getParameterType.ignore`
| Instructs Spring to ignore `java.sql.ParameterMetaData.getParameterType` completely.
See the note in xref:data-access/jdbc/advanced.adoc#jdbc-batch-list[Batch Operations with a List of Objects].

| `spring.jndi.ignore`
| Instructs Spring to ignore a default JNDI environment, as an optimization for scenarios
where nothing is ever to be found for such JNDI fallback searches to begin with, avoiding
the repeated JNDI lookup overhead. See
{spring-framework-api}++/jndi/JndiLocatorDelegate.html#IGNORE_JNDI_PROPERTY_NAME++[`JndiLocatorDelegate`]
for details.

| `spring.locking.strict`
| Instructs Spring to enforce strict locking during bean creation, rather than the mix of
strict and lenient locking that 6.2 applies by default. See
{spring-framework-api}++/beans/factory/support/DefaultListableBeanFactory.html#STRICT_LOCKING_PROPERTY_NAME++[`DefaultListableBeanFactory`]
for details.

| `spring.objenesis.ignore`
| Instructs Spring to ignore Objenesis, not even attempting to use it. See
{spring-framework-api}++/objenesis/SpringObjenesis.html#IGNORE_OBJENESIS_PROPERTY_NAME++[`SpringObjenesis`]
for details.

| `spring.placeholder.escapeCharacter.default`
| The default escape character for property placeholder support. If not set, `'\'` will
be used. Can be set to a custom escape character or an empty string to disable support
for an escape character. The default escape character be explicitly overridden in
`PropertySourcesPlaceholderConfigurer` and subclasses of `AbstractPropertyResolver`. See
{spring-framework-api}++/core/env/AbstractPropertyResolver.html#DEFAULT_PLACEHOLDER_ESCAPE_CHARACTER_PROPERTY_NAME++[`AbstractPropertyResolver`]
for details.

| `spring.test.aot.processing.failOnError`
| A boolean flag that controls whether errors encountered during AOT processing in the
_Spring TestContext Framework_ should result in an exception that fails the overall process.
See xref:testing/testcontext-framework/aot.adoc[Ahead of Time Support for Tests].

| `spring.test.constructor.autowire.mode`
| The default _test constructor autowire mode_ to use if `@TestConstructor` is not present
on a test class. See xref:testing/annotations/integration-junit-jupiter.adoc#integration-testing-annotations-testconstructor[Changing the default test constructor autowire mode].

| `spring.test.context.cache.maxSize`
| The maximum size of the context cache in the _Spring TestContext Framework_. See
xref:testing/testcontext-framework/ctx-management/caching.adoc[Context Caching].

| `spring.test.context.cache.pause`
| The pause mode for the context cache in the _Spring TestContext Framework_. See
xref:testing/testcontext-framework/ctx-management/caching.adoc[Context Caching].

| `spring.test.context.failure.threshold`
| The failure threshold for errors encountered while attempting to load an `ApplicationContext`
in the _Spring TestContext Framework_. See
xref:testing/testcontext-framework/ctx-management/failure-threshold.adoc[Context Failure Threshold].

| `spring.test.enclosing.configuration`
| The default _enclosing configuration inheritance mode_ to use if
`@NestedTestConfiguration` is not present on a test class. See
xref:testing/annotations/integration-junit-jupiter.adoc#integration-testing-annotations-nestedtestconfiguration[Changing the default enclosing configuration inheritance mode].

|===
