# Quick Instructions

1. Download and install the Java 8 version of GraalVM CE along with the `native-image` tool.
2. Execute the `testInNativeImage` task for a given module. For example, for `spring-core`
   execute the following command.

`./gradlew --offline --no-build-cache -DnativeImageTesting=true :spring-core:clean :spring-core:testInNativeImage`	

# Detailed Instructions

1. Download the Java 8 version of [GraalVM CE 20.0.0](https://github.com/graalvm/graalvm-ce-builds/releases/tag/vm-20.0.0).

2. Unpack the archive and set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to point to it. Then
   modify the `PATH` environment variable to include `JAVA_HOME/bin`.

	For example, if you are developing on Mac OS and you unpacked the archive into
	`/opt/graalvm/graalvm-ce-java8-20.0.0`, the following commands should work.
	
	```
	export GRAALVM_HOME=/opt/graalvm/graalvm-ce-java8-20.0.0/Contents/Home
	export PATH=$GRAALVM_HOME/bin:$PATH
	export JAVA_HOME=$GRAALVM_HOME
	```

	Executing `java -version` should then display something similar to the following.

	```
	 openjdk version "1.8.0_242"
	 OpenJDK Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_242-b06)
	 OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM GraalVM CE 20.0.0 (build 25.242-b06-jvmci-20.0-b02, mixed mode)
	```

3. Execute `gu install native-image` to download the native-image command.

	Executing `native-image --version` should then display something similar to the following.

	```
	GraalVM Version 20.0.0 CE
	```

4. The following steps assume you are executing the example commands within a module's
   directory – for example, within the `spring-core` directory.

5. Run the tests with the GraalVM JVM agent via the custom `testWithGraalVmAgent` Gradle
   task, specifying `-DnativeImageTesting=true` in order to have test classes that use
   unsupported features filtered from the list of test classes. Note that
   `testWithGraalVmAgent` depends on the standard `test` task. To ensure that things
   work properly, you might want to first execute `../gradlew clean` and supply the
   `--no-build-cache` flag when executing the tests so that you are not working with cached
   results.

	```
	../gradlew --offline --no-build-cache -DnativeImageTesting=true testWithGraalVmAgent
	```

	Open `build/reports/tests/test/index.html` to see the test results.

	Open `build/test_classes.txt` to see the list of test classes that will be executed
	within the native image. Note that `TestClassTrackingTestExecutionListener` is an
	automatically registered JUnit Platform `TestExecutionListener` that creates this file.
	This file will be used by later scripts to execute the filtered list of test classes.

6. Build a native image for the tests via the custom `buildNativeImageForTests` Gradle
   task, specifying `-DnativeImageTesting=true` in order to have test classes that use
   unsupported features filtered from the list of test classes. This compiles a
   `native-image-tests.bin` executable in the `build` directory using the configuration
   generated by the GraalVM JVM agent in the `build/graalvm` directory combined with the
   hand-crafted configuration found in `src/test/resources/META-INF/native-image`.

   Note that `buildNativeImageForTests` depends on the `testWithGraalVmAgent` task.

	```
	   ../gradlew --offline --no-build-cache -DnativeImageTesting=true buildNativeImageForTests
	```

7. Execute the following to run the tests in the native image.

   Note that `testInNativeImage` depends on the `buildNativeImageForTests` task.

	```
	../gradlew --offline --no-build-cache -DnativeImageTesting=true testInNativeImage
	```

----

# NOTES

### Gradle Tasks

The custom Gradle tasks introduced in this proof of concept do *NOT* yet have support for
incremental builds and UP-TO-DATE checks. For example, executing the `testInNativeImage`
task will cause everything to be rebuilt for the native image, etc.

This can be improved by configuring "inputs" and "outputs" for the corresponding Gradle
tasks.

### AnnotatedElementUtilsTests

- `javaxAnnotationTypeViaFindMergedAnnotation()` requires the following in proxy-config:
  `["javax.annotation.Resource", "org.springframework.core.annotation.SynthesizedAnnotation"]`

### DefaultConversionServiceTests

- `convertObjectToStringWithJavaTimeOfMethodPresent()`: fails because the GraalVM agent does
	not detect that it needs to include superclasses in `reflect-config.json` when
	`Class#getMethod` is invoked (as in `org.springframework.util.ClassUtils.getStaticMethod()`).
	This may be a bug in the GraalVM agent. As a workaround, we have added an
	`allDeclaredMethods` entry to `reflect-config.json` for `java.time.ZoneRegion` so that the
	`of(String)` method defined in `ZoneId` (`ZoneRegion`'s superclass) is visible via reflection.

### Reflection

- Member classes are not automatically registered for reflective access within a native
	image by the JVM agent. To enable this support, one must manually set `allPublicClasses`
	and `allDeclaredClasses` to `true` in `reflect-config.json`.
	
	From the [GraalVM wiki](https://github.com/oracle/graal/blob/master/substratevm/REFLECTION.md#manual-configuration):

	> However, `allPublicClasses` and `allDeclaredClasses` don't automatically register the
	inner classes for reflective access. They just make them available via `Class.getClasses()`
	and `Class.getDeclaredClasses()` when called on the declaring class.

    Entries have been manually added to `reflect-config.json` for the following:
    - `org.springframework.core.type.StandardAnnotationMetadataTests`
    - `org.springframework.core.type.StandardClassMetadataMemberClassTests`
