framework-docs/modules/ROOT/pages/testing/testcontext-framework/bean-overriding.adoc, before:

[[testcontext-bean-overriding]]
= Bean Overriding in Tests

Bean overriding in tests refers to the ability to override specific beans in the
`ApplicationContext` for a test class, by annotating the test class or one or more
non-static fields in the test class.

NOTE: This feature is intended as a less risky alternative to the practice of registering
a bean via `@Bean` with the `DefaultListableBeanFactory`
`setAllowBeanDefinitionOverriding` flag set to `true`.

The Spring TestContext framework provides two sets of annotations for bean overriding.

* xref:testing/annotations/integration-spring/annotation-testbean.adoc[`@TestBean`]
* xref:testing/annotations/integration-spring/annotation-mockitobean.adoc[`@MockitoBean` and `@MockitoSpyBean`]

The former relies purely on Spring, while the latter set relies on the
https://site.mockito.org/[Mockito] third-party library.

[[testcontext-bean-overriding-custom]]
== Custom Bean Override Support

The three annotations mentioned above build upon the `@BeanOverride` meta-annotation and
associated infrastructure, which allows one to define custom bean overriding variants.

To implement custom bean override support, the following is needed:

* An annotation meta-annotated with `@BeanOverride` that defines the
  `BeanOverrideProcessor` to use
* A custom `BeanOverrideProcessor` implementation
* One or more concrete `BeanOverrideHandler` implementations created by the processor

The Spring TestContext framework includes implementations of the following APIs that
support bean overriding and are responsible for setting up the rest of the infrastructure.

* a `BeanFactoryPostProcessor`
* a `ContextCustomizerFactory`
* a `TestExecutionListener`

The `spring-test` module registers implementations of the latter two
(`BeanOverrideContextCustomizerFactory` and `BeanOverrideTestExecutionListener`) in its
{spring-framework-code}/spring-test/src/main/resources/META-INF/spring.factories[`META-INF/spring.factories`
properties file].

The bean overriding infrastructure searches for annotations on test classes as well as
annotations on non-static fields in test classes that are meta-annotated with
`@BeanOverride` and instantiates the corresponding `BeanOverrideProcessor` which is
responsible for creating an appropriate `BeanOverrideHandler`.

The internal `BeanOverrideBeanFactoryPostProcessor` then uses bean override handlers to
alter the test's `ApplicationContext` by creating, replacing, or wrapping beans as
defined by the corresponding `BeanOverrideStrategy`:

[[testcontext-bean-overriding-strategy]]
`REPLACE`::
  Replaces the bean. Throws an exception if a corresponding bean does not exist.
`REPLACE_OR_CREATE`::
  Replaces the bean if it exists. Creates a new bean if a corresponding bean does not
  exist.
`WRAP`::
  Retrieves the original bean and wraps it.

[TIP]
====
Only _singleton_ beans can be overridden. Any attempt to override a non-singleton bean
will result in an exception.

When replacing a bean created by a `FactoryBean`, the `FactoryBean` itself will be
replaced with a singleton bean corresponding to bean override instance created by the
applicable `BeanOverrideHandler`.

When wrapping a bean created by a `FactoryBean`, the object created by the `FactoryBean`
will be wrapped, not the `FactoryBean` itself.
====

[NOTE]
====
In contrast to Spring's autowiring mechanism (for example, resolution of an `@Autowired`
field), the bean overriding infrastructure in the TestContext framework has limited
heuristics it can perform to locate a bean. Either the `BeanOverrideProcessor` can compute
the name of the bean to override, or it can be unambiguously selected given the type of
the annotated field and its qualifying annotations.

Typically, the bean is selected "by type" by the `BeanOverrideFactoryPostProcessor`.
Alternatively, the user can directly provide the bean name in the custom annotation.

`BeanOverrideProcessor` implementations may also internally compute a bean name based on
a convention or some other method.
====

Commit message:

Support Bean Overrides for non-singletons
Prior to this commit, the BeanOverrideBeanFactoryPostProcessor rejected
any attempt to override a non-singleton bean; however, due to interest
from the community, we have decided to provide support for overriding
non-singleton beans via the Bean Override mechanism — for example, when
using @⁠MockitoBean, @⁠MockitoSpyBean, and @⁠TestBean.

With this commit, we now support Bean Overrides for non-singletons: for
standard JVM runtimes as well as AOT processing and AOT runtimes. This
commit also documents that non-singletons will effectively be converted
to singletons when overridden and logs a warning similar to the
following.

WARN: BeanOverrideBeanFactoryPostProcessor - Converting 'prototype' scoped bean definition 'myBean' to a singleton.

See gh-33602
See gh-32933
See gh-33800
Closes gh-35574

framework-docs/modules/ROOT/pages/testing/testcontext-framework/bean-overriding.adoc, after:

[[testcontext-bean-overriding]]
= Bean Overriding in Tests

Bean overriding in tests refers to the ability to override specific beans in the
`ApplicationContext` for a test class, by annotating the test class or one or more
non-static fields in the test class.

NOTE: This feature is intended as a less risky alternative to the practice of registering
a bean via `@Bean` with the `DefaultListableBeanFactory`
`setAllowBeanDefinitionOverriding` flag set to `true`.

The Spring TestContext framework provides two sets of annotations for bean overriding.

* xref:testing/annotations/integration-spring/annotation-testbean.adoc[`@TestBean`]
* xref:testing/annotations/integration-spring/annotation-mockitobean.adoc[`@MockitoBean` and `@MockitoSpyBean`]

The former relies purely on Spring, while the latter set relies on the
https://site.mockito.org/[Mockito] third-party library.

[[testcontext-bean-overriding-custom]]
== Custom Bean Override Support

The three annotations mentioned above build upon the `@BeanOverride` meta-annotation and
associated infrastructure, which allows one to define custom bean overriding variants.

To implement custom bean override support, the following is needed:

* An annotation meta-annotated with `@BeanOverride` that defines the
  `BeanOverrideProcessor` to use
* A custom `BeanOverrideProcessor` implementation
* One or more concrete `BeanOverrideHandler` implementations created by the processor

The Spring TestContext framework includes implementations of the following APIs that
support bean overriding and are responsible for setting up the rest of the infrastructure.

* a `BeanFactoryPostProcessor`
* a `ContextCustomizerFactory`
* a `TestExecutionListener`

The `spring-test` module registers implementations of the latter two
(`BeanOverrideContextCustomizerFactory` and `BeanOverrideTestExecutionListener`) in its
{spring-framework-code}/spring-test/src/main/resources/META-INF/spring.factories[`META-INF/spring.factories`
properties file].

The bean overriding infrastructure searches for annotations on test classes as well as
annotations on non-static fields in test classes that are meta-annotated with
`@BeanOverride` and instantiates the corresponding `BeanOverrideProcessor` which is
responsible for creating an appropriate `BeanOverrideHandler`.

The internal `BeanOverrideBeanFactoryPostProcessor` then uses bean override handlers to
alter the test's `ApplicationContext` by creating, replacing, or wrapping beans as
defined by the corresponding `BeanOverrideStrategy`:

[[testcontext-bean-overriding-strategy]]
`REPLACE`::
  Replaces the bean. Throws an exception if a corresponding bean does not exist.
`REPLACE_OR_CREATE`::
  Replaces the bean if it exists. Creates a new bean if a corresponding bean does not
  exist.
`WRAP`::
  Retrieves the original bean and wraps it.

[TIP]
====
When replacing a non-singleton bean, the non-singleton bean will be replaced with a
singleton bean corresponding to bean override instance created by the applicable
`BeanOverrideHandler`, and the corresponding bean definition will be converted to a
`singleton`. Consequently, if a handler overrides a `prototype` or scoped bean, the
overridden bean will be treated as a `singleton`.

When replacing a bean created by a `FactoryBean`, the `FactoryBean` itself will be
replaced with a singleton bean corresponding to bean override instance created by the
applicable `BeanOverrideHandler`.

When wrapping a bean created by a `FactoryBean`, the object created by the `FactoryBean`
will be wrapped, not the `FactoryBean` itself.
====

[NOTE]
====
In contrast to Spring's autowiring mechanism (for example, resolution of an `@Autowired`
field), the bean overriding infrastructure in the TestContext framework has limited
heuristics it can perform to locate a bean. Either the `BeanOverrideProcessor` can compute
the name of the bean to override, or it can be unambiguously selected given the type of
the annotated field and its qualifying annotations.

Typically, the bean is selected "by type" by the `BeanOverrideFactoryPostProcessor`.
Alternatively, the user can directly provide the bean name in the custom annotation.

`BeanOverrideProcessor` implementations may also internally compute a bean name based on
a convention or some other method.
====
