framework-docs/modules/ROOT/pages/testing/testcontext-framework/ctx-management/caching.adoc, before:

[[testcontext-ctx-management-caching]]
= Context Caching

Once the TestContext framework loads an `ApplicationContext` (or `WebApplicationContext`)
for a test, that context is cached and reused for all subsequent tests that declare the
same unique context configuration within the same test suite. To understand how caching
works, it is important to understand what is meant by "unique" and "test suite."

An `ApplicationContext` can be uniquely identified by the combination of configuration
parameters that is used to load it. Consequently, the unique combination of configuration
parameters is used to generate a key under which the context is cached. The TestContext
framework uses the following configuration parameters to build the context cache key:

* `locations` (from `@ContextConfiguration`)
* `classes` (from `@ContextConfiguration`)
* `contextInitializerClasses` (from `@ContextConfiguration`)
* `contextCustomizers` (from `ContextCustomizerFactory`) – this includes
  `@DynamicPropertySource` methods, bean overrides (such as `@TestBean`, `@MockitoBean`,
  `@MockitoSpyBean` etc.), as well as various features from Spring Boot's testing support.
* `contextLoader` (from `@ContextConfiguration`)
* `parent` (from `@ContextHierarchy`)
* `activeProfiles` (from `@ActiveProfiles`)
* `propertySourceDescriptors` (from `@TestPropertySource`)
* `propertySourceProperties` (from `@TestPropertySource`)
* `resourceBasePath` (from `@WebAppConfiguration`)

For example, if `TestClassA` specifies `{"app-config.xml", "test-config.xml"}` for the
`locations` (or `value`) attribute of `@ContextConfiguration`, the TestContext framework
loads the corresponding `ApplicationContext` and stores it in a `static` context cache
under a key that is based solely on those locations. So, if `TestClassB` also defines
`{"app-config.xml", "test-config.xml"}` for its locations (either explicitly or
implicitly through inheritance) but does not define `@WebAppConfiguration`, a different
`ContextLoader`, different active profiles, different context initializers, different
context customizers, different test or dynamic property sources, or a different parent
context, then the same `ApplicationContext` is shared by both test classes. This means
that the setup cost for loading an application context is incurred only once (per test
suite), and subsequent test execution is much faster.

.Test suites and forked processes
[NOTE]
====
The Spring TestContext framework stores application contexts in a static cache. This
means that the context is literally stored in a `static` variable. In other words, if
tests run in separate processes, the static cache is cleared between each test
execution, which effectively disables the caching mechanism.

To benefit from the caching mechanism, all tests must run within the same process or test
suite. This can be achieved by executing all tests as a group within an IDE. Similarly,
when executing tests with a build framework such as Ant, Maven, or Gradle, it is
important to make sure that the build framework does not fork between tests. For example,
if the
https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-surefire-plugin/test-mojo.html#forkMode[`forkMode`]
for the Maven Surefire plug-in is set to `always` or `pertest`, the TestContext framework
cannot cache application contexts between test classes, and the build process runs
significantly more slowly as a result.
====

The size of the context cache is bounded with a default maximum size of 32. Whenever the
maximum size is reached, a least recently used (LRU) eviction policy is used to evict and
close stale contexts. You can configure the maximum size from the command line or a build
script by setting a JVM system property named `spring.test.context.cache.maxSize`. As an
alternative, you can set the same property via the
xref:appendix.adoc#appendix-spring-properties[`SpringProperties`] mechanism.

As of Spring Framework 7.0, an application context stored in the context cache will be
_paused_ when it is no longer actively in use and automatically _restarted_ the next time
the context is retrieved from the cache. Specifically, the latter will restart all
auto-startup beans in the application context, effectively restoring the lifecycle state.
This ensures that background processes within the context are not actively running while
the context is not used by tests. For example, JMS listener containers, scheduled tasks,
and any other components in the context that implement `Lifecycle` or `SmartLifecycle`
will be in a "stopped" state until the context is used again by a test. Note, however,
that `SmartLifecycle` components can opt out of pausing by returning `false` from
`SmartLifecycle#isPauseable()`.

Since having a large number of application contexts loaded within a given test suite can
cause the suite to take an unnecessarily long time to run, it is often beneficial to
know exactly how many contexts have been loaded and cached. To view the statistics for
the underlying context cache, you can set the log level for the
`org.springframework.test.context.cache` logging category to `DEBUG`.

In the unlikely case that a test corrupts the application context and requires reloading
(for example, by modifying a bean definition or the state of an application object), you
can annotate your test class or test method with `@DirtiesContext` (see the discussion of
`@DirtiesContext` in
xref:testing/annotations/integration-spring/annotation-dirtiescontext.adoc[Spring Testing Annotations]).
This instructs Spring to remove the context from the cache and rebuild the application
context before running the next test that requires the same application context. Note
that support for the `@DirtiesContext` annotation is provided by the
`DirtiesContextBeforeModesTestExecutionListener` and the
`DirtiesContextTestExecutionListener`, which are enabled by default.

.ApplicationContext lifecycle and console logging
[NOTE]
====
When you need to debug a test executed with the Spring TestContext Framework, it can be
useful to analyze the console output (that is, output to the `SYSOUT` and `SYSERR`
streams). Some build tools and IDEs are able to associate console output with a given
test; however, some console output cannot be easily associated with a given test.

With regard to console logging triggered by the Spring Framework itself or by components
registered in the `ApplicationContext`, it is important to understand the lifecycle of an
`ApplicationContext` that has been loaded by the Spring TestContext Framework within a
test suite.

The `ApplicationContext` for a test is typically loaded when an instance of the test
class is being prepared -- for example, to perform dependency injection into `@Autowired`
fields of the test instance. This means that any console logging triggered during the
initialization of the `ApplicationContext` typically cannot be associated with an
individual test method. However, if the context is closed immediately before the
execution of a test method according to xref:testing/annotations/integration-spring/annotation-dirtiescontext.adoc[`@DirtiesContext`]
semantics, a new instance of the context will be loaded just prior to execution of the
test method. In the latter scenario, an IDE or build tool may potentially associate
console logging with the individual test method.

The `ApplicationContext` for a test can be closed via one of the following scenarios.

* The context is closed according to `@DirtiesContext` semantics.
* The context is closed because it has been automatically evicted from the cache
  according to the LRU eviction policy.
* The context is closed via a JVM shutdown hook when the JVM for the test suite
  terminates.

If the context is closed according to `@DirtiesContext` semantics after a particular test
method, an IDE or build tool may potentially associate console logging with the
individual test method. If the context is closed according to `@DirtiesContext` semantics
after a test class, any console logging triggered during the shutdown of the
`ApplicationContext` cannot be associated with an individual test method. Similarly, any
console logging triggered during the shutdown phase via a JVM shutdown hook cannot be
associated with an individual test method.

When a Spring `ApplicationContext` is closed via a JVM shutdown hook, callbacks executed
during the shutdown phase are executed on a thread named `SpringContextShutdownHook`. So,
if you wish to disable console logging triggered when the `ApplicationContext` is closed
via a JVM shutdown hook, you may be able to register a custom filter with your logging
framework that allows you to ignore any logging initiated by that thread.
====

Commit message:

Introduce Spring property to disable context pausing for tests
Spring Framework 7.0 introduced support for pausing inactive
application contexts between test classes and restarting them once they
are needed again. If pausing and restarting are fast, this feature does
not have a negative impact on test suites.

However, if the pausing or restarting of certain Lifecycle components
in the application context is slow, that can have a negative impact on
the duration of the overall test suite.

In gh-36044, we hope to find a way to avoid unnecessarily pausing an
application context after a test class if the same context is used by
the next test class that is run. That should help reduce the risk of a
negative impact caused by the pause/restart feature; however, for
certain scenarios that may not be enough. In light of that, this commit
introduces a mechanism for completely disabling the pausing feature via
a Spring property or JVM system property, as follows.

-Dspring.test.context.cache.pause=never

See gh-35168
See gh-36044
Closes gh-36117

framework-docs/modules/ROOT/pages/testing/testcontext-framework/ctx-management/caching.adoc, after:

[[testcontext-ctx-management-caching]]
= Context Caching

Once the TestContext framework loads an `ApplicationContext` (or `WebApplicationContext`)
for a test, that context is cached and reused for all subsequent tests that declare the
same unique context configuration within the same test suite. To understand how caching
works, it is important to understand what is meant by "unique" and "test suite."

An `ApplicationContext` can be uniquely identified by the combination of configuration
parameters that is used to load it. Consequently, the unique combination of configuration
parameters is used to generate a key under which the context is cached. The TestContext
framework uses the following configuration parameters to build the context cache key:

* `locations` (from `@ContextConfiguration`)
* `classes` (from `@ContextConfiguration`)
* `contextInitializerClasses` (from `@ContextConfiguration`)
* `contextCustomizers` (from `ContextCustomizerFactory`) – this includes
  `@DynamicPropertySource` methods, bean overrides (such as `@TestBean`, `@MockitoBean`,
  `@MockitoSpyBean` etc.), as well as various features from Spring Boot's testing support.
* `contextLoader` (from `@ContextConfiguration`)
* `parent` (from `@ContextHierarchy`)
* `activeProfiles` (from `@ActiveProfiles`)
* `propertySourceDescriptors` (from `@TestPropertySource`)
* `propertySourceProperties` (from `@TestPropertySource`)
* `resourceBasePath` (from `@WebAppConfiguration`)

For example, if `TestClassA` specifies `{"app-config.xml", "test-config.xml"}` for the
`locations` (or `value`) attribute of `@ContextConfiguration`, the TestContext framework
loads the corresponding `ApplicationContext` and stores it in a `static` context cache
under a key that is based solely on those locations. So, if `TestClassB` also defines
`{"app-config.xml", "test-config.xml"}` for its locations (either explicitly or
implicitly through inheritance) but does not define `@WebAppConfiguration`, a different
`ContextLoader`, different active profiles, different context initializers, different
context customizers, different test or dynamic property sources, or a different parent
context, then the same `ApplicationContext` is shared by both test classes. This means
that the setup cost for loading an application context is incurred only once (per test
suite), and subsequent test execution is much faster.

.Test suites and forked processes
[NOTE]
====
The Spring TestContext framework stores application contexts in a static cache. This
means that the context is literally stored in a `static` variable. In other words, if
tests run in separate processes, the static cache is cleared between each test
execution, which effectively disables the caching mechanism.

To benefit from the caching mechanism, all tests must run within the same process or test
suite. This can be achieved by executing all tests as a group within an IDE. Similarly,
when executing tests with a build framework such as Ant, Maven, or Gradle, it is
important to make sure that the build framework does not fork between tests. For example,
if the
https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-surefire-plugin/test-mojo.html#forkMode[`forkMode`]
for the Maven Surefire plug-in is set to `always` or `pertest`, the TestContext framework
cannot cache application contexts between test classes, and the build process runs
significantly more slowly as a result.
====

The size of the context cache is bounded with a default maximum size of 32. Whenever the
maximum size is reached, a least recently used (LRU) eviction policy is used to evict and
close stale contexts. You can configure the maximum size from the command line or a build
script by setting a JVM system property named `spring.test.context.cache.maxSize`. As an
alternative, you can set the same property via the
xref:appendix.adoc#appendix-spring-properties[`SpringProperties`] mechanism.

As of Spring Framework 7.0, an application context stored in the context cache will be
_paused_ when it is no longer actively in use and automatically _restarted_ the next time
the context is retrieved from the cache. Specifically, the latter will restart all
auto-startup beans in the application context, effectively restoring the lifecycle state.
This ensures that background processes within the context are not actively running while
the context is not used by tests. For example, JMS listener containers, scheduled tasks,
and any other components in the context that implement `Lifecycle` or `SmartLifecycle`
will be in a "stopped" state until the context is used again by a test. Note, however,
that `SmartLifecycle` components can opt out of pausing by returning `false` from
`SmartLifecycle#isPauseable()`.

[TIP]
====
If you encounter issues with `Lifecycle` components that cannot or should not opt out of
pausing, or if you discover that your test suite runs more slowly due to the pausing and
restarting of application contexts, you can disable the pausing feature from the command
line or a build script by setting a JVM system property named
`spring.test.context.cache.pause` to `never`. For example:

```shell
-Dspring.test.context.cache.pause=never
```

As an alternative, you can set the same property via the
xref:appendix.adoc#appendix-spring-properties[`SpringProperties`] mechanism.
====

Since having a large number of application contexts loaded within a given test suite can
cause the suite to take an unnecessarily long time to run, it is often beneficial to
know exactly how many contexts have been loaded and cached. To view the statistics for
the underlying context cache, you can set the log level for the
`org.springframework.test.context.cache` logging category to `DEBUG`.

In the unlikely case that a test corrupts the application context and requires reloading
(for example, by modifying a bean definition or the state of an application object), you
can annotate your test class or test method with `@DirtiesContext` (see the discussion of
`@DirtiesContext` in
xref:testing/annotations/integration-spring/annotation-dirtiescontext.adoc[Spring Testing Annotations]).
This instructs Spring to remove the context from the cache and rebuild the application
context before running the next test that requires the same application context. Note
that support for the `@DirtiesContext` annotation is provided by the
`DirtiesContextBeforeModesTestExecutionListener` and the
`DirtiesContextTestExecutionListener`, which are enabled by default.

.ApplicationContext lifecycle and console logging
[NOTE]
====
When you need to debug a test executed with the Spring TestContext Framework, it can be
useful to analyze the console output (that is, output to the `SYSOUT` and `SYSERR`
streams). Some build tools and IDEs are able to associate console output with a given
test; however, some console output cannot be easily associated with a given test.

With regard to console logging triggered by the Spring Framework itself or by components
registered in the `ApplicationContext`, it is important to understand the lifecycle of an
`ApplicationContext` that has been loaded by the Spring TestContext Framework within a
test suite.

The `ApplicationContext` for a test is typically loaded when an instance of the test
class is being prepared -- for example, to perform dependency injection into `@Autowired`
fields of the test instance. This means that any console logging triggered during the
initialization of the `ApplicationContext` typically cannot be associated with an
individual test method. However, if the context is closed immediately before the
execution of a test method according to xref:testing/annotations/integration-spring/annotation-dirtiescontext.adoc[`@DirtiesContext`]
semantics, a new instance of the context will be loaded just prior to execution of the
test method. In the latter scenario, an IDE or build tool may potentially associate
console logging with the individual test method.

The `ApplicationContext` for a test can be closed via one of the following scenarios.

* The context is closed according to `@DirtiesContext` semantics.
* The context is closed because it has been automatically evicted from the cache
  according to the LRU eviction policy.
* The context is closed via a JVM shutdown hook when the JVM for the test suite
  terminates.

If the context is closed according to `@DirtiesContext` semantics after a particular test
method, an IDE or build tool may potentially associate console logging with the
individual test method. If the context is closed according to `@DirtiesContext` semantics
after a test class, any console logging triggered during the shutdown of the
`ApplicationContext` cannot be associated with an individual test method. Similarly, any
console logging triggered during the shutdown phase via a JVM shutdown hook cannot be
associated with an individual test method.

When a Spring `ApplicationContext` is closed via a JVM shutdown hook, callbacks executed
during the shutdown phase are executed on a thread named `SpringContextShutdownHook`. So,
if you wish to disable console logging triggered when the `ApplicationContext` is closed
via a JVM shutdown hook, you may be able to register a custom filter with your logging
framework that allows you to ignore any logging initiated by that thread.
====
