framework-docs/modules/ROOT/pages/testing/annotations/integration-spring/annotation-mockitobean.adoc, before:

[[spring-testing-annotation-beanoverriding-mockitobean]]
= `@MockitoBean` and `@MockitoSpyBean`

{spring-framework-api}/test/context/bean/override/mockito/MockitoBean.html[`@MockitoBean`] and
{spring-framework-api}/test/context/bean/override/mockito/MockitoSpyBean.html[`@MockitoSpyBean`]
can be used in test classes to override a bean in the test's `ApplicationContext` with a
Mockito _mock_ or _spy_, respectively. In the latter case, an early instance of the
original bean is captured and wrapped by the spy.

The annotations can be applied in the following ways.

* On a non-static field in a test class or any of its superclasses.
* On a non-static field in an enclosing class for a `@Nested` test class or in any class
  in the type hierarchy or enclosing class hierarchy above the `@Nested` test class.
* At the type level on a test class or any superclass or implemented interface in the
  type hierarchy above the test class.
* At the type level on an enclosing class for a `@Nested` test class or on any class or
  interface in the type hierarchy or enclosing class hierarchy above the `@Nested` test
  class.

When `@MockitoBean` or `@MockitoSpyBean` is declared on a field, the bean to mock or spy
is inferred from the type of the annotated field. If multiple candidates exist in the
`ApplicationContext`, a `@Qualifier` annotation can be declared on the field to help
disambiguate. In the absence of a `@Qualifier` annotation, the name of the annotated
field will be used as a _fallback qualifier_. Alternatively, you can explicitly specify a
bean name to mock or spy by setting the `value` or `name` attribute in the annotation.

When `@MockitoBean` or `@MockitoSpyBean` is declared at the type level, the type of bean
(or beans) to mock or spy must be supplied via the `types` attribute in the annotation –
for example, `@MockitoBean(types = {OrderService.class, UserService.class})`. If multiple
candidates exist in the `ApplicationContext`, you can explicitly specify a bean name to
mock or spy by setting the `name` attribute. Note, however, that the `types` attribute
must contain a single type if an explicit bean `name` is configured – for example,
`@MockitoBean(name = "ps1", types = PrintingService.class)`.

To support reuse of mock configuration, `@MockitoBean` and `@MockitoSpyBean` may be used
as meta-annotations to create custom _composed annotations_ – for example, to define
common mock or spy configuration in a single annotation that can be reused across a test
suite. `@MockitoBean` and `@MockitoSpyBean` can also be used as repeatable annotations at
the type level — for example, to mock or spy several beans by name.

[WARNING]
====
Qualifiers, including the name of a field, are used to determine if a separate
`ApplicationContext` needs to be created. If you are using this feature to mock or spy
the same bean in several test classes, make sure to name the fields consistently to avoid
creating unnecessary contexts.
====

[WARNING]
====
Using `@MockitoBean` or `@MockitoSpyBean` in conjunction with `@ContextHierarchy` can
lead to undesirable results since each `@MockitoBean` or `@MockitoSpyBean` will be
applied to all context hierarchy levels by default. To ensure that a particular
`@MockitoBean` or `@MockitoSpyBean` is applied to a single context hierarchy level, set
the `contextName` attribute to match a configured `@ContextConfiguration` name – for
example, `@MockitoBean(contextName = "app-config")` or
`@MockitoSpyBean(contextName = "app-config")`.

See
xref:testing/testcontext-framework/ctx-management/hierarchies.adoc#testcontext-ctx-management-ctx-hierarchies-with-bean-overrides[context
hierarchies with bean overrides] for further details and examples.
====

Each annotation also defines Mockito-specific attributes to fine-tune the mocking behavior.

The `@MockitoBean` annotation uses the `REPLACE_OR_CREATE`
xref:testing/testcontext-framework/bean-overriding.adoc#testcontext-bean-overriding-strategy[strategy for bean overrides].
If a corresponding bean does not exist, a new bean will be created. However, you can
switch to the `REPLACE` strategy by setting the `enforceOverride` attribute to `true` –
for example, `@MockitoBean(enforceOverride = true)`.

The `@MockitoSpyBean` annotation uses the `WRAP`
xref:testing/testcontext-framework/bean-overriding.adoc#testcontext-bean-overriding-strategy[strategy],
and the original instance is wrapped in a Mockito spy. This strategy requires that
exactly one candidate bean exists.

[TIP]
====
As stated in the documentation for Mockito, there are times when using `Mockito.when()` is
inappropriate for stubbing a spy – for example, if calling a real method on a spy results
in undesired side effects.

To avoid such undesired side effects, consider using
`Mockito.doReturn(...).when(spy)...`, `Mockito.doThrow(...).when(spy)...`,
`Mockito.doNothing().when(spy)...`, and similar methods.
====

[NOTE]
====
Only _singleton_ beans can be overridden. Any attempt to override a non-singleton bean
will result in an exception.

When using `@MockitoBean` to mock a bean created by a `FactoryBean`, the `FactoryBean`
will be replaced with a singleton mock of the type of object created by the `FactoryBean`.

When using `@MockitoSpyBean` to create a spy for a `FactoryBean`, a spy will be created
for the object created by the `FactoryBean`, not for the `FactoryBean` itself.
====

[NOTE]
====
There are no restrictions on the visibility of `@MockitoBean` and `@MockitoSpyBean`
fields.

Such fields can therefore be `public`, `protected`, package-private (default visibility),
or `private` depending on the needs or coding practices of the project.
====


[[spring-testing-annotation-beanoverriding-mockitobean-examples]]
== `@MockitoBean` Examples

The following example shows how to use the default behavior of the `@MockitoBean`
annotation.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(TestConfig.class)
	class BeanOverrideTests {

		@MockitoBean // <1>
		CustomService customService;

		// tests...
	}
----
<1> Replace the bean with type `CustomService` with a Mockito mock.
======

In the example above, we are creating a mock for `CustomService`. If more than one bean
of that type exists, the bean named `customService` is considered. Otherwise, the test
will fail, and you will need to provide a qualifier of some sort to identify which of the
`CustomService` beans you want to override. If no such bean exists, a bean will be
created with an auto-generated bean name.

The following example uses a by-name lookup, rather than a by-type lookup. If no bean
named `service` exists, one is created.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(TestConfig.class)
	class BeanOverrideTests {

		@MockitoBean("service") // <1>
		CustomService customService;

		// tests...

	}
----
<1> Replace the bean named `service` with a Mockito mock.
======

The following `@SharedMocks` annotation registers two mocks by-type and one mock by-name.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Target(ElementType.TYPE)
	@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
	@MockitoBean(types = {OrderService.class, UserService.class}) // <1>
	@MockitoBean(name = "ps1", types = PrintingService.class) // <2>
	public @interface SharedMocks {
	}
----
<1> Register `OrderService` and `UserService` mocks by-type.
<2> Register `PrintingService` mock by-name.
======

The following demonstrates how `@SharedMocks` can be used on a test class.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(TestConfig.class)
	@SharedMocks // <1>
	class BeanOverrideTests {

		@Autowired OrderService orderService; // <2>

		@Autowired UserService userService; // <2>

		@Autowired PrintingService ps1; // <2>

		// Inject other components that rely on the mocks.

		@Test
		void testThatDependsOnMocks() {
			// ...
		}
	}
----
<1> Register common mocks via the custom `@SharedMocks` annotation.
<2> Optionally inject mocks to _stub_ or _verify_ them.
======

TIP: The mocks can also be injected into `@Configuration` classes or other test-related
components in the `ApplicationContext` in order to configure them with Mockito's stubbing
APIs.


[[spring-testing-annotation-beanoverriding-mockitospybean-examples]]
== `@MockitoSpyBean` Examples

The following example shows how to use the default behavior of the `@MockitoSpyBean`
annotation.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(TestConfig.class)
	class BeanOverrideTests {

		@MockitoSpyBean // <1>
		CustomService customService;

		// tests...
	}
----
<1> Wrap the bean with type `CustomService` with a Mockito spy.
======

In the example above, we are wrapping the bean with type `CustomService`. If more than
one bean of that type exists, the bean named `customService` is considered. Otherwise,
the test will fail, and you will need to provide a qualifier of some sort to identify
which of the `CustomService` beans you want to spy.

The following example uses a by-name lookup, rather than a by-type lookup.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(TestConfig.class)
	class BeanOverrideTests {

		@MockitoSpyBean("service") // <1>
		CustomService customService;

		// tests...
	}
----
<1> Wrap the bean named `service` with a Mockito spy.
======

The following `@SharedSpies` annotation registers two spies by-type and one spy by-name.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Target(ElementType.TYPE)
	@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
	@MockitoSpyBean(types = {OrderService.class, UserService.class}) // <1>
	@MockitoSpyBean(name = "ps1", types = PrintingService.class) // <2>
	public @interface SharedSpies {
	}
----
<1> Register `OrderService` and `UserService` spies by-type.
<2> Register `PrintingService` spy by-name.
======

The following demonstrates how `@SharedSpies` can be used on a test class.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(TestConfig.class)
	@SharedSpies // <1>
	class BeanOverrideTests {

		@Autowired OrderService orderService; // <2>

		@Autowired UserService userService; // <2>

		@Autowired PrintingService ps1; // <2>

		// Inject other components that rely on the spies.

		@Test
		void testThatDependsOnMocks() {
			// ...
		}
	}
----
<1> Register common spies via the custom `@SharedSpies` annotation.
<2> Optionally inject spies to _stub_ or _verify_ them.
======

TIP: The spies can also be injected into `@Configuration` classes or other test-related
components in the `ApplicationContext` in order to configure them with Mockito's stubbing
APIs.

Commit message:

Support Bean Overrides for non-singletons
Prior to this commit, the BeanOverrideBeanFactoryPostProcessor rejected
any attempt to override a non-singleton bean; however, due to interest
from the community, we have decided to provide support for overriding
non-singleton beans via the Bean Override mechanism — for example, when
using @⁠MockitoBean, @⁠MockitoSpyBean, and @⁠TestBean.

With this commit, we now support Bean Overrides for non-singletons: for
standard JVM runtimes as well as AOT processing and AOT runtimes. This
commit also documents that non-singletons will effectively be converted
to singletons when overridden and logs a warning similar to the
following.

WARN: BeanOverrideBeanFactoryPostProcessor - Converting 'prototype' scoped bean definition 'myBean' to a singleton.

See gh-33602
See gh-32933
See gh-33800
Closes gh-35574

framework-docs/modules/ROOT/pages/testing/annotations/integration-spring/annotation-mockitobean.adoc, after:

[[spring-testing-annotation-beanoverriding-mockitobean]]
= `@MockitoBean` and `@MockitoSpyBean`

{spring-framework-api}/test/context/bean/override/mockito/MockitoBean.html[`@MockitoBean`] and
{spring-framework-api}/test/context/bean/override/mockito/MockitoSpyBean.html[`@MockitoSpyBean`]
can be used in test classes to override a bean in the test's `ApplicationContext` with a
Mockito _mock_ or _spy_, respectively. In the latter case, an early instance of the
original bean is captured and wrapped by the spy.

The annotations can be applied in the following ways.

* On a non-static field in a test class or any of its superclasses.
* On a non-static field in an enclosing class for a `@Nested` test class or in any class
  in the type hierarchy or enclosing class hierarchy above the `@Nested` test class.
* At the type level on a test class or any superclass or implemented interface in the
  type hierarchy above the test class.
* At the type level on an enclosing class for a `@Nested` test class or on any class or
  interface in the type hierarchy or enclosing class hierarchy above the `@Nested` test
  class.

When `@MockitoBean` or `@MockitoSpyBean` is declared on a field, the bean to mock or spy
is inferred from the type of the annotated field. If multiple candidates exist in the
`ApplicationContext`, a `@Qualifier` annotation can be declared on the field to help
disambiguate. In the absence of a `@Qualifier` annotation, the name of the annotated
field will be used as a _fallback qualifier_. Alternatively, you can explicitly specify a
bean name to mock or spy by setting the `value` or `name` attribute in the annotation.

When `@MockitoBean` or `@MockitoSpyBean` is declared at the type level, the type of bean
(or beans) to mock or spy must be supplied via the `types` attribute in the annotation –
for example, `@MockitoBean(types = {OrderService.class, UserService.class})`. If multiple
candidates exist in the `ApplicationContext`, you can explicitly specify a bean name to
mock or spy by setting the `name` attribute. Note, however, that the `types` attribute
must contain a single type if an explicit bean `name` is configured – for example,
`@MockitoBean(name = "ps1", types = PrintingService.class)`.

To support reuse of mock configuration, `@MockitoBean` and `@MockitoSpyBean` may be used
as meta-annotations to create custom _composed annotations_ – for example, to define
common mock or spy configuration in a single annotation that can be reused across a test
suite. `@MockitoBean` and `@MockitoSpyBean` can also be used as repeatable annotations at
the type level — for example, to mock or spy several beans by name.

[WARNING]
====
Qualifiers, including the name of a field, are used to determine if a separate
`ApplicationContext` needs to be created. If you are using this feature to mock or spy
the same bean in several test classes, make sure to name the fields consistently to avoid
creating unnecessary contexts.
====

[WARNING]
====
Using `@MockitoBean` or `@MockitoSpyBean` in conjunction with `@ContextHierarchy` can
lead to undesirable results since each `@MockitoBean` or `@MockitoSpyBean` will be
applied to all context hierarchy levels by default. To ensure that a particular
`@MockitoBean` or `@MockitoSpyBean` is applied to a single context hierarchy level, set
the `contextName` attribute to match a configured `@ContextConfiguration` name – for
example, `@MockitoBean(contextName = "app-config")` or
`@MockitoSpyBean(contextName = "app-config")`.

See
xref:testing/testcontext-framework/ctx-management/hierarchies.adoc#testcontext-ctx-management-ctx-hierarchies-with-bean-overrides[context
hierarchies with bean overrides] for further details and examples.
====

Each annotation also defines Mockito-specific attributes to fine-tune the mocking behavior.

The `@MockitoBean` annotation uses the `REPLACE_OR_CREATE`
xref:testing/testcontext-framework/bean-overriding.adoc#testcontext-bean-overriding-strategy[strategy for bean overrides].
If a corresponding bean does not exist, a new bean will be created. However, you can
switch to the `REPLACE` strategy by setting the `enforceOverride` attribute to `true` –
for example, `@MockitoBean(enforceOverride = true)`.

The `@MockitoSpyBean` annotation uses the `WRAP`
xref:testing/testcontext-framework/bean-overriding.adoc#testcontext-bean-overriding-strategy[strategy],
and the original instance is wrapped in a Mockito spy. This strategy requires that
exactly one candidate bean exists.

[TIP]
====
As stated in the documentation for Mockito, there are times when using `Mockito.when()` is
inappropriate for stubbing a spy – for example, if calling a real method on a spy results
in undesired side effects.

To avoid such undesired side effects, consider using
`Mockito.doReturn(...).when(spy)...`, `Mockito.doThrow(...).when(spy)...`,
`Mockito.doNothing().when(spy)...`, and similar methods.
====

[NOTE]
====
When using `@MockitoBean` to mock a non-singleton bean, the non-singleton bean will be
replaced with a singleton mock, and the corresponding bean definition will be converted
to a `singleton`. Consequently, if you mock a `prototype` or scoped bean, the mock will
be treated as a `singleton`.

Similarly, when using `@MockitoSpyBean` to create a spy for a non-singleton bean, the
corresponding bean definition will be converted to a `singleton`. Consequently, if you
create a spy for a `prototype` or scoped bean, the spy will be treated as a `singleton`.

When using `@MockitoBean` to mock a bean created by a `FactoryBean`, the `FactoryBean`
will be replaced with a singleton mock of the type of object created by the `FactoryBean`.

Similarly, when using `@MockitoSpyBean` to create a spy for a `FactoryBean`, a spy will
be created for the object created by the `FactoryBean`, not for the `FactoryBean` itself.
====

[NOTE]
====
There are no restrictions on the visibility of `@MockitoBean` and `@MockitoSpyBean`
fields.

Such fields can therefore be `public`, `protected`, package-private (default visibility),
or `private` depending on the needs or coding practices of the project.
====


[[spring-testing-annotation-beanoverriding-mockitobean-examples]]
== `@MockitoBean` Examples

The following example shows how to use the default behavior of the `@MockitoBean`
annotation.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(TestConfig.class)
	class BeanOverrideTests {

		@MockitoBean // <1>
		CustomService customService;

		// tests...
	}
----
<1> Replace the bean with type `CustomService` with a Mockito mock.
======

In the example above, we are creating a mock for `CustomService`. If more than one bean
of that type exists, the bean named `customService` is considered. Otherwise, the test
will fail, and you will need to provide a qualifier of some sort to identify which of the
`CustomService` beans you want to override. If no such bean exists, a bean will be
created with an auto-generated bean name.

The following example uses a by-name lookup, rather than a by-type lookup. If no bean
named `service` exists, one is created.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(TestConfig.class)
	class BeanOverrideTests {

		@MockitoBean("service") // <1>
		CustomService customService;

		// tests...

	}
----
<1> Replace the bean named `service` with a Mockito mock.
======

The following `@SharedMocks` annotation registers two mocks by-type and one mock by-name.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Target(ElementType.TYPE)
	@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
	@MockitoBean(types = {OrderService.class, UserService.class}) // <1>
	@MockitoBean(name = "ps1", types = PrintingService.class) // <2>
	public @interface SharedMocks {
	}
----
<1> Register `OrderService` and `UserService` mocks by-type.
<2> Register `PrintingService` mock by-name.
======

The following demonstrates how `@SharedMocks` can be used on a test class.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(TestConfig.class)
	@SharedMocks // <1>
	class BeanOverrideTests {

		@Autowired OrderService orderService; // <2>

		@Autowired UserService userService; // <2>

		@Autowired PrintingService ps1; // <2>

		// Inject other components that rely on the mocks.

		@Test
		void testThatDependsOnMocks() {
			// ...
		}
	}
----
<1> Register common mocks via the custom `@SharedMocks` annotation.
<2> Optionally inject mocks to _stub_ or _verify_ them.
======

TIP: The mocks can also be injected into `@Configuration` classes or other test-related
components in the `ApplicationContext` in order to configure them with Mockito's stubbing
APIs.


[[spring-testing-annotation-beanoverriding-mockitospybean-examples]]
== `@MockitoSpyBean` Examples

The following example shows how to use the default behavior of the `@MockitoSpyBean`
annotation.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(TestConfig.class)
	class BeanOverrideTests {

		@MockitoSpyBean // <1>
		CustomService customService;

		// tests...
	}
----
<1> Wrap the bean with type `CustomService` with a Mockito spy.
======

In the example above, we are wrapping the bean with type `CustomService`. If more than
one bean of that type exists, the bean named `customService` is considered. Otherwise,
the test will fail, and you will need to provide a qualifier of some sort to identify
which of the `CustomService` beans you want to spy.

The following example uses a by-name lookup, rather than a by-type lookup.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(TestConfig.class)
	class BeanOverrideTests {

		@MockitoSpyBean("service") // <1>
		CustomService customService;

		// tests...
	}
----
<1> Wrap the bean named `service` with a Mockito spy.
======

The following `@SharedSpies` annotation registers two spies by-type and one spy by-name.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Target(ElementType.TYPE)
	@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
	@MockitoSpyBean(types = {OrderService.class, UserService.class}) // <1>
	@MockitoSpyBean(name = "ps1", types = PrintingService.class) // <2>
	public @interface SharedSpies {
	}
----
<1> Register `OrderService` and `UserService` spies by-type.
<2> Register `PrintingService` spy by-name.
======

The following demonstrates how `@SharedSpies` can be used on a test class.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(TestConfig.class)
	@SharedSpies // <1>
	class BeanOverrideTests {

		@Autowired OrderService orderService; // <2>

		@Autowired UserService userService; // <2>

		@Autowired PrintingService ps1; // <2>

		// Inject other components that rely on the spies.

		@Test
		void testThatDependsOnMocks() {
			// ...
		}
	}
----
<1> Register common spies via the custom `@SharedSpies` annotation.
<2> Optionally inject spies to _stub_ or _verify_ them.
======

TIP: The spies can also be injected into `@Configuration` classes or other test-related
components in the `ApplicationContext` in order to configure them with Mockito's stubbing
APIs.
